This mod will be separated into distinct tiers.
The first few tiers wil directly pull from betterthanwolves, and then after that, they will attempt to integrate other mods.
Tier0 - Starting phase
    Basically, the first tree punching and resource gathering phase.
    No tools to speak of, logs only drop one plank, and also take forever to break.
    One plank = 2 sticks
    cannot make wooden axe, and wooden picks only mine one block before breaking.
    This is the hardest phase.
    Also, re-vamped hunger mechanics, food scarcity, and increased fatigue from the amount of blocks/items carried.
    (iterate through inventory, store to array of stuff, update on changes, and affect the player's walking speed, as well as food decrease rate
    goals for this tier are to gather enough resources to make a stone pick, and to secure enough food
    to last for the first night.
    gathering surface coal is also important.
Tier1 - Begins when the player has enough cobble to make a few picks, and a temporary residence
    This tier is all about harvesting higher level resources. Iron mostly.
    Iron ore only drops piles of iron rubble, which only makes one nugget per ore in the beginning phase.
    the goal here is to get enough iron to make the smeltery pit, which requires iron in the recipe.
    Smeltery pit is a multiblock structure, 3x2, hole in the middle, and on activated
    forms an inventory that is identical to the furnace.
    This is the first machine/thing that I need to make.
    It provides a way to smelt piles of iron rubble into more than one iron nugget
    It also provides a way to get redstone, albeit really really slowly.
    redstone only drops the crushed ore, and cannot be refined until this machine is made
    The Smeltery pit
        first multiblock structure.
        made with an Iron cauldron in the middle, and a furnace under it.
        layer 1 is 3x3 cobblestone
        layer 2 is more cobble, but with this pattern
        xxx
        xxx
        xfx
        x = cobble, f = furnace
        layer 3 is a ring of iron grates, with a cauldron in the middle
        xxx
        xcx
        xxx
        x = iron grate
        c = cauldron
        on assembly, done by player rightclicking on the cauldron.
        eventually, will be replaced with a tile entity, of a simple 3x3 structure
        the block under the cauldron is replaced with fire whenever there is something cooking

Tier2

Tier3

Tier4
fuck it, rip off btw completely
all the various machines, and sources of power
especially farming stuff. millstone and the
ore washing machine





I would advocate all multiblock-type structures as being made up of component 'magic blocks', to form a sort of rube-goldberg machine. Think along the lines of vanilla redstone contraptions, with pistons and other such moving parts.
For example: give the player a set of tools or 'magic blocks' that each fulfill a simple task. One turns x into y, via some plausible method. Another moves x to another location, conveyor belt etc.
And so on.
So in the end the player has to work around their environment to make a complex combination of said components to complete an overall objective, turning raw ore into ingots.
However, the presentation is also a major part. If you have grey drab squares all sort of moving back and forth, that is not very interesting.
But, if you instead have loudly smashing pistons, with smoke and flame animations, and minecarts going to and fro with various components, it will in the end be a much more rewarding process.